- [Instructor] For this tutorial,
please ensure that SDKMAN! is installed.
If you have not installed SDKMAN!, as of yet,
please go back to the introduction chapter,
set up your environment for installation details.
We'll be using lab exercise files
found in folder 0205 begin for this tutorial.
So please have this open in IntelliJ.
I want to give you a little background
on what we're doing here before we proceed.
The title going native with spring
points to a packaging methodology of our application
that transforms this application to run natively
on the host OS.
And we are able to do this through GraalVM
and a few spring boot Gradle plugins.
The big benefit for us is that
we can increase application throughput
and reduce latency, as well as compile our applications
into very, very small self-contained native binaries.
But first, what we need to do
is download GraalVM runtime for our operating system.
As you can see here on the GraalVM download page
we can use either the community GitHub build
or the enterprise Oracle version.
We'll be using the community GitHub build,
so let's go ahead and click the download
from GitHub and take a look around.
As you can see here as a version 21.3.0,
we have stable versions of Java 11 and Java 17
based on GraalVM.
GraalVM version 21.3.0 does not support Java 8,
so unfortunately we'll be using Java 11 for this tutorial.
GraalVM version 21.2.0 does support Java 8,
but not for a Mac.
At any rate, let's stay at Java 11 for this tutorial.
If you're watching this video later
and version 21.3.0 is not listed downloads,
you can load github.com GraalVM-ce-builds/tags
to see all of the available versions
and if need be a version used for this tutorial.
I recommend spending some time on this site
to read all of the available documentation as well.
I'm showing you these pages,
even though we will not be downloading from here
because the information and details are important
for software engineers to understand
when deciding what tools to use and how to go forward.
Now, armed that information we need,
let's use SDKMAN! to ease the install on our systems.
If we jump over to SDKMAN! in the terminal
and type SDK list Java,
we can see that 8.312.07.1 is installed and in use.
Let's go ahead and update SDK
by typing SDK update.
It says to open a new terminal, so let's do that now.
And now we're going to install GraalVM.
So first let's go back to SDK list Java.
We're going to find the version of GraalVM
which is Graal 21.2.0.r11-graal.
The R 11 refers to the Graal version instance.
Let's use 21.3r11-graal.
We'll copy that, type Q
and now let's install that version.
SDK install Java 21.3.0.r-11-grl.
And here we'll type Y
to set this as the default.
Okay, so let's type SDK list Java.
And now we can see that we're actually using
and the graal 21.3.0.r11 is installed.
We'll type Java-version.
And this as well tells us that we have JDK 11. 13 installed
and graalVM 21.3.0 installed.
Going back to our project code inside of IntelliJ,
we're going to open the build Gradle file.
and let's make some alterations
like changing the source compatibility from 1.8 to 11.
Next we're going to add some plugins after the id.java
we'll type ID space.org,
spring framework.experimental.aot.
And after this, we'll specify a version of 0.1 and .3.
We'll add another ID
and this will be org.graalvm build tools.native.
The version we'll use for this one is 0.9.3.
We need to ensure that our Maven repositories
are pointing at the spring releases.
So we're going to modify our repository section
going to delete this part
and type it again, but this time
we'll put it all on one line.
URL https://repo.springIO/release.
Additionally, we need to add some gradle task
at the bottom of this file.
We'll go down under the test
and we'll type native build early bracket
class path process, aot resources.outputs
comma compile aot Java.outputs.
Following of that will add a native test as well.
Again, we'll type class path process at resources
but we'll change this to test resources dot outputs
compile aot, change this to aot best Java .outputs.
We also need to modify our settings Gradle
and right before the root project name
we'll enter a plugin management section
type curly bracket
repositories curly brackets, again, Maven URL
https://repo spring IO/release.
On the next we'll type Maven central.
And finally we'll type Gradle plugin portal.
We'll save this and we're going to go back
to our build Gradle file.
The last change we need to make is
by adding a dependency for an unimplemented enum constant
which is rough currently from java.annotation.meta.win.
This may not happen in every code instance, but in ours
it has a dependency that we need to satisfy.
We'll scroll up,
here we'll type implementation,
single quotes com.google .code
.find bugs:JSR 305:3.0.2.
And we're also going to remove
the net ultra timely layout dialect.
We'll save this.
And our next step is to build.
Now, in our last video, we generated the Docker image
through great old w boot build image.
Along with the image name, to build a native image
we'll need to run dot slash cradle w native build
and this will generate our native image.
Now just hit enter.
I want to forewarn you,
gradle native builds will take quite a while to complete
and you will possibly see failed verification messages
with many, many warning messages.
This is completely okay.
The long build time here is
because the native build task is removing all
the unnecessary dependencies that will not be needed
for a stripped down minimalist native build.
Wow, that took a really long time to build and compile.
Again, don't worry too much about all the warning messages.
So for me, this build took 14 minutes
and 32 seconds to complete.
That is a crazy long amount of time
but the benefit to these native build images lies
in the sub-second startup times
and the responsiveness of the applications.
I'm not sure how long your build time took
but let's go ahead and run the build located
in the build native native build .
Let's first clear the screen
we'll type build/native
/native build/spring boot broad application
space-D spring.profiles.active equals dev,
and hit enter.
Now, what I hope you're seeing here is the subsecond startup
for this application.
Its started in 0.6 seconds.
If we compare this say
against running the jar let's control C
and do Java jar D spring.profiles.active equals
dev build LIS spring boot prod application dot jar
and hit enter.
You'll notice
that the startup time takes a much, much longer.
In fact, it's still starting and mine shows 5.76 seconds.
As a side note, I've seen law, larger applications take
up to five minutes per app on a Tomcat server
with a complete restart of the Tomcat instance
taking over 30 minutes, which is just horrible.
Spring boot running natively is truly a game changer.
I'm going to control C here.
We're going to run it again
as a native image, we'll hit enter.
Wow, again, 0.666 seconds.
Not an unholy number there at all, right.
Let's go ahead and go to the browser.
We'll test this we'll type local host 9,000,
hit enter,
application came up right away.
All right, let's go ahead and change this to .1
and look at our actuator health,
hit enter.
Look how responsive and how fast it is.
Now, hopefully this demonstrates
some very fascinating possibilities
on how your prod deployments can improve production usage.
Keep in mind that a native build has to be run
on the OS that matches your production environment,
sort of like the RPM build process.
You might think, even of combining the two.